Version 4.0.0 (14 Jul 2015)

  This major release of libgig adds support for other file formats:
  SoundFont 2 (.sf2), KORG multi sample instruments (.KSF, .KMP) and AKAI
  format sounds. The AKAI classes are a fork of Sébastien Métrot's libakai and
  since it is released under a different license (LGPL) than libgig is (GPL),
  the AKAI classes are built as separate DLL file. All other classes of those
  new file formats are built and bundled with the existing libgig DLL. Thanks
  to Grigor Iliev for his work on the SoundFont 2 classes! Please note that
  there is currently no support for KORG's .PCG file format yet. That's because
  this file format changes a lot and is not only dependent to the precise KORG
  keyboard model, but also to the precise OS version on the same model. And
  since basic conversion can also be done by just accessing the .KSF and .KMP
  files (sample data, loop informations), the current classes should be
  sufficient for many tasks. Adding support for KORG's .PCG files is not
  planned at the moment.

  Various new command line tools have been added as well to dump, extract and
  convert between all those file formats now. Each one of it has a man page,
  so please refer to the respective man page of the individual command line
  tool for details.

  The GigaStudio/Gigasampler classes received a load of fixes during the last
  six years. And support for features introduced with the last official
  GigaStudio 4 software (RIP) were added, for instance support for so called
  "iMIDI Rules". Those rules allow i.e. to trigger notes by MIDI CC and to
  define a sample set for legato playing style. In the meantime it seems as if
  the GigaStudio software has seen its last version with GigaStudio 4, because
  Tascam discontinued this product and the intellectual property of GigaStudio
  had been sold several times between companies. It is currently not possible
  to buy a new copy of GigaStudio anymore and we personally don't expect that
  this situation will ever change.

  Does this also mean the end of new features for libgig? Not really! Actually
  we already started to add new features to the GigaStudio/Gigasampler format
  which never existed with the GigaStudio/Gigasampler software: The most
  noteworthy new feature added by us is support for real-time instrument
  scripts. These are little "programs" which you can bundle with your .gig
  sounds to add a custom behavior to your sounds when playing them with i.e.
  LinuxSampler. Find out more about this new major feature on:

        http://doc.linuxsampler.org/Instrument_Scripts/

  There are also some more minor extensions to the .gig format, for example
  support for far more MIDI CC's than originally allowed by the GigaStudio
  software. Obviously all those custom extensions will not work with any
  version of the official GigaStudio software, those new features will only
  work with a recent version of LinuxSampler and gigedit at the moment.

  Besides those major changes, a load of convenient methods have been added to
  the existing libgig classes to reduce the overall effort working with all
  those file formats with software applications based on libgig.

Version 3.3.0 (30 Jul 2009)

  Partial support for MIDI rules, the rest are just bug fixes.

Version 3.2.1 (5 Dec 2007)

  Just some minor performance optimizations.

Version 3.2.0 (14 Oct 2007)

  This release once again comes with a huge bunch of fixes regarding
  Gigasampler write support. Instrument files created from scratch with
  libgig can finally be loaded into the Gigasampler application as well.

  libgig's home has moved! From now on you can find it on:
  http://www.linuxsampler.org/libgig/
  Please update your links and bookmarks!

Version 3.1.1 (24 Mar 2007)

  This is a bugfix release, fixing one important bug regarding gig v3
  support (custom split points) and a lot of bugs regarding .gig write
  support. And this is the first official release for the Windows platform.

Version 3.1.0 (24 Nov 2006)

  libgig's home has moved (slightly) from
  http://stud.fh-heilbronn.de/~cschoene/projects/libgig/ to
  http://stud.hs-heilbronn.de/~cschoene/projects/libgig/, please update your
  links and bookmarks! This is due to the recent renaming of the University
  of Heilbronn, which kindly hosts this and other projects.

Version 3.0.0 (28 Apr 2006)

  This is the first release which allows to create new and modify existing
  .gig files. Beside that it also includes another bunch of bug fixes and
  Gigasampler v3 support improvements.
