Version 1.0.0 (2015-07-17)

  With this release we added support for new GigaStudio 4 features, for
  example there are now dialogs for editing some of the new so called
  "iMIDI rules". These can be used i.e. to trigger notes by MIDI CC and to
  define a set of legato samples. You may have heard that the GigaStudio
  software has seen its last version with GigaStudio 4. Tascam officially
  discontinued this product, its intellectual property has been sold several
  times among companies and there is currently no way to buy a new copy of
  GigaStudio anymore. However the GigaStudio format is still under active
  development with gigedit and LinuxSampler. For the first time ever we added
  our own extensions to the Giga format: one of it is major new feature
  called "real-time instrument scripts", which allows to bundle small programs
  with your .gig sounds, which extend the sampler with custom behavior for
  specific sounds. You may know such kind of instrument scripts from
  commercial software samplers. Find out more about this new feature on
  http://doc.linuxsampler.org/Instrument_Scripts/. Another rather minor
  extension to the Giga format is support for various other MIDI CCs which
  were never supported by GigaStudio before. So you can now use any MIDI CC
  for EG1 controller, EG2 controller and attenuation controller. Obviously all
  those extensions will not work with any GigaStudio version, they only work
  with a recent version of Gigedit and LinuxSampler. Gigedit will inform you
  whenever you are using such kind of custom Giga format extension, so that you
  are always aware in case your changes are not cross/backward compatible with
  the GigaStudio software. A load of enhancements have been added to Gigedit
  in the last six years: Until now you were only able to edit either exactly
  one dimension region or all dimension regions simultaneously. With this
  release you may now hold the Ctrl button and select a specific set of
  dimension region zones in the dimension region selector area (on the very
  bottom of the Gigedit window) with your mouse. All synthesis parameters you
  then change, will all be applied to that precise set of dimension region
  zones. Also managing dimensions have been improved: previously to change the
  amount of zones of a dimension you had to delete and recreate the dimension.
  Which was not just inconvenient, but you also had to redefine your synthesis
  parameters from scratch. Now you can just open the dimension manager dialog
  and increase or decrease the amount of zones of a dimension with few clicks.
  Same applies to the dimension type: you may now simply open the dimension
  manager dialog and alter the type of a dimension with few clicks.
  When working on complex Giga sounds you certainly noticed that one could
  easily get confused about which samples are exactly used by which instrument
  or even whether a sample is actually used at all by any instrument or just
  left orphaned and wasting disk space. This was also due to the fact that the
  Giga format does not require unique names for samples. We have worked on
  resolving this usability issue. In the sample list view you can now read the
  amount of times a sample is referenced by instruments of your .gig file. If a
  sample is not used at all, then it will be shown in striking red color in
  the sample list view. You may also right click on a sample and select
  "Show references...", a new window appears on your screen which will show you
  where exactly that particular sample is used by, that is which by which
  instruments and by which regions of those instruments. Also the other way
  around has been addressed: when you now edit the synthesis parameters of a
  particular dimension region, you may now click on the new "<- Select Sample"
  button and Gigedit automatically selects and displays the respective sample
  in the samples list view, which you may then might rename to some more
  appropriate sample name, or you might check by which other instrument(s) that
  sample is used by, etc. You may now also remove the current sample reference
  from individual dimension regions (assigning a so called "NULL" sample) by
  clicking on the new "X" button next the sample reference field on the
  "Sample" tab of a dimension region; this allows you to define "silent cases",
  that is a case where no sample should be played at all, for example this is
  often used for very low velocity ranges of i.e. between 0 and 6. If you are
  working on .gig files with a large amount of Instruments, then you might also
  be glad to know that you can finally also re-order the instruments of a file
  by simply dragging the instruments around in the instruments list view.
  Another handy new feature for sound designers is the new "Combine" tool,
  which you can reach from the main menu. It allows you to select two ore more
  instruments (by holding down the Ctrl key while selecting with mouse click)
  from your currently open Giga file and combine those selected instruments to
  a new instrument. This way you may for example create stunning layered
  sounds, or you may create velocity splits, crossfade sounds by MIDI
  controller and much more, all with just a few clicks. This may sound like a
  trivial task, but if you have worked on this before, you certainly noticed
  that this was often a very time consuming and error prone task before,
  especially with complex individual sounds which had custom region ranges,
  custom velocity splits and much more exotic stuff to take care of. The
  combine tool handles all such cases for you automatically.
  Last but not least, the interaction of Gigedit with LinuxSampler (in so
  called "live mode") had been improved: When you click on the "Edit" button of
  a channel strip in QSampler or Fantasia, Gigedit will be launched with the
  respective instrument automatically being selected. Vice versa you may now
  also just select another instrument with Gigedit's instrument list view and
  LinuxSampler will automatically load and play that instrument on the
  respective sampler part for you. So no more need to switch between the
  Gigedit window and QSampler/Fantasia window all the time while working on
  your sounds.

Version 0.2.0 (2009-07-31)

  When gigedit is running as a plugin in LinuxSampler the gigedit
  keyboard may now be used to trigger notes. The settings in the file
  properties window are now editable. A new function for replacing all
  samples is added. Otherwise this is mostly a bug fix release, and
  upgrading gigedit and libgig is strongly recommended, as previous
  versions had bugs that may cause edited gig files to be corrupted.

Version 0.1.1 (2007-12-06)

  Parameter edits can now be applied to multiple regions and dimension
  regions simultaneously - three checkboxes were added that select if
  changes apply to all regions and/or all dimension regions.

Version 0.1.0 (2007-10-15)

  Many fixes have been made to make sure that the gig files created by
  gigedit are working properly in LinuxSampler and GigaStudio. Gigedit
  can now be run as a LinuxSampler plugin, allowing live editing of
  loaded instruments. Sample loop parameters and instrument global
  properties can now be edited. 24 bit samples can be imported. A
  quick-start document has been added. Lots of other minor fixes and
  improvements have been done.

Version 0.0.3 (2007-03-24)

  First version of gigedit. The program is renamed from gigview to
  gigedit as it is now an editor, not just a viewer. Basic support for
  both editing existing gig files and creating new ones from scratch
  is provided.

Version 0.0.2 (2006-11-05)

  Quick fix for a thread initialization problem.

Version 0.0.1 (2006-11-05)

  First version of gigview.
